#**Path-Planning-Project**

The goal of this project was to:

* Design a path planner that is able to create smooth, safe paths for the car to follow along a 3 lane highway with traffic. 

####1. Path Planning in a 3-Lane Highway

For a 3-lane highway, path planning can be implemented using simple logic rules: drive in the current lane close to but under the speed-limit. If the car ahead of you is driving slower than you, slow-down accordingly and explore the possibility of changing lanes. If in the outer lanes (left or right), shift to the middle lane if feasible. If in the middle lane, prefer a lane-shift to the left, if not shift to the right if safe. If a lane shift is not feasible, drive in the current lane while avoiding collision with the car in front. 

#####a. Collisions

Collisions are prevented by checking whether distance to car in front of our vehicle in the current lane is below a threshold (implemented in the checkTooClose() function) and slowing down accordingly by modifying the ref_vel variable. Also, collisions are avoided by checking whether there is enough distance in front and behind our vehicle in the target lane while trying to change lane (implemented in the isLaneChangeSafe() function).

#####b. Staying in and Changing Lanes

The vehicle stays in the lane by creating a smooth trajectory using the provided waypoints. If conditions for a lane change is safe, the vehicle smoothly changes lanes by modifying the target_lane variable (implemented in the getTargetLane() function). Changing the target lane ensures that the spline can generate a smooth path from the current lane to the target lane.

####2. Trajectory Generation

Trajectories are generated by first fitting a spline to 5 points (2 points from the previous path and 3 points 30, 60 and 90 meters into the future in the target lane.) The waypoints are then sampled from the spline in such a way that they are not spaced too close or far apart (which helps prevent exceeding the max acceleration and jerk). 

#####a. Speed Limit

Speed limit is not exceeded by ensuring the waypoints sampled from the spline are never at a distance greater than the distance covered in .02 seconds at the speed limit. 

#####b. Acceleration and Jerk

By using the waypoints from the previous path and only appending new waypoints, a smooth trajectory is generated ensuring the prevention of drastic changes in acceleration and velocity.

#####Video:
Here is a [video](https://vimeo.com/229845220) of the car completing a lap for the path planning project.



